I have no Illusions I know the American
political life sufficiently to know that
that will not happen uh but at least
it's important to put pressure on the
United States in order to make sure that
United States uh put pressure on Israel
uh as they are supporting Israel put
pressure on Israel to stop the war and
at the same time to recognize that the
two-state solution must not be
undermined okay joining us here is Tamar
kmut who's an associate professor public
policy at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies welcome back to Al
jazer just your initial thoughts on what
garas had to say to Al jazer I mean it
it doesn't get clearer than this so he's
addressing it to the United States it is
the only superpower which has been so
far enabling Israel to continue this War
uh through funding weapons arms and
providing diplomatic protection to
Israel in un corridors so he says it
blunt and clear he's the US has to
intervene and this comes from the top un
Diplomat and this puts us again back to
to the US I mean where is the US
Administration when it comes to this of
course I mean it's obvious to everyone
that the US Administration has been
enabling this war to continue and to go
on for so long but do his words uh are
his words strong enough in your opinion
because earlier this week as you know we
saw the deadliest attack on un staff in
Gaza since the War Began since also uh
October 7th of last year there are
hundreds of of un facilities which have
been damaged hundreds of un staff which
have been killed in Gaza so why hasn't
the UN sort of been able to put an end
to what looks to be blatant disregard of
un facilities and un sta excellent point
Darin I mean the the UN especially nor
has been uh a target of a Target and a
victim of this war since the onset of of
uh of of the of the of the War uh and
and Israel has been Keen to Target Ona
in particular in addition to other un
agencies but because Ona has carries
this historical weight un was
established because of uh the
establishment of Israel and the
displacement of millions of Palestinians
so it's a UN agency uh that was
established to to cater for these
Palestinian refugees and as long as it
exists and keeps delivering Services it
means uh Palestinian refugees have a
right more or less in in until their
their uh until the conflict is solved
and until they're able to return to
their Homeland uh so and and most
recently the Israeli Prime Minister have
also instructed the Army to get ready to
replace onu and providing key Social
Services to the residents of Gaza which
hence of Israel is willing to reoccupy
Gaza more or less and I think when when
gues sees all of this realizes that the
Israeli campaign is bigger than fighting
Hamas it's after onoro as well they want
to end Ono's presence in the strip and
this for sure I mean coming from a very
rational politician and I mean gues was
a former Minister foreign minister of of
Portugal he realizes that this is this
will not solve the conflict by any mean
it will just complicate the conflict
just one final thought from you before
we move on this lack of accountability
that many observe since the beginning of
the Gaza War specifically when it comes
to of course the killing of un staff in
Gaza um does it sort of set a dangerous
precedent that politics is being put
above people do you think of course but
but again let's remind you the viewers
that the UN is a very political
organization and for it to reach to a
consensus on any issue any Global Affair
it it has to to be anonymous consens
agreement among the key players
especially the veto players the five
important countries it's not a fair un
it does not represent the real will and
of of the globe as it stands today uh
but we inerted the system past second
world war and now that's the only
available in International System we
have I mean decision making making is
taking into in in this complex political
uh environment so it is a political
agency but it carries a very
humanitarian mandate that upholds human
rights human value Etc but again if you
don't have this political consensus at
the upper level the administrative level
of the UN becomes paralyzed and this is
where um gues comes and he cries and he
screams and he say days we need to get
over with the politics agree on a
political solution to enable the UN as
as an entity as an agency to perform and
to deliver its responsibilities and
duties right but we're not there at this
stage thank you so much Tam kmud thank
you my
pleasure make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer